CASMMON-446  Create victoriametrics documentation (#5423)
Cray-HPE/docs-csm: operations/system_management_health/victoriametrics.md

# VictoriaMetrics

> VictoriaMetrics is a fast, cost-effective and scalable time series database. It can be used as a long-term remote storage for Prometheus.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
VictoriaMetrics is a fast, cost-effective, and scalable time series database. It can be used as a long-term remote storage for Prometheus.
```

> It is recommended to use the single-node version instead of the cluster version for ingestion rates lower than a million data points per second. The single-node version scales perfectly with the number of CPU cores, RAM and available storage space.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is recommended to use the single-node version instead of the cluster version for ingestion rates lower than a million data points per second. The single-node version scales perfectly with the number of CPU cores, RAM, and available storage space.
```

## Prominent features

- Supports all the features of the single-node version.
- Performance and capacity scale horizontally. 
- Supports multiple independent namespaces for time series data (aka multi-tenancy).
- Supports replication.

> ## Architecture Overview

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Architecture overview
```

![Prometheus architecture with Thanos](../../img/operations/Prometheus_with_thanos_architecture.png "Prometheus architecture with Thanos")

VictoriaMetrics cluster consists of the following services:

**Vmstorage:** It stores the raw data and returns the queried data on the given time range for the given label filters. This is the only stateful component in the cluster.

**Vminsert:** It accepts the ingested data and spreads it among vmstorage nodes according to consistent hashing over metric name and all its labels.

**Vmselect:** It performs incoming queries by fetching the needed data from all the configured vmstoragenodes.
To access vmselect GUI, use `ssh` port-forwarding.

1. Use `kubectl` command to get the `SERVICE-IP` of `vmselect-vms` service.

    ```yaml
    kubectl get service -n sysmgmt-health vmselect-vms
    ```
  
   Expected output looks similar to the following:

    ```text
    NAME                               TYPE        CLUSTER-IP    EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)              AGE
    vmselect-vms                       ClusterIP       None      <none>        8481/TCP             122d
    ```

> 2. Use `vmselect-vms` service name and `8481` port number to port forward

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Use `vmselect-vms` service name and `8481` port number to port forward.
```

   ```text
   kubectl port-forward -n sysmgmt-health service/vmselect-vms  8481:8481
   ```
 
 

> 3. Use local laptop/desktop commad line to access cluster 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Use a local laptop or desktop command line to access the cluster.
```

Author: > Use a local laptop or desktop command line to access the cluster.

done

To access vmagent GUI, use `ssh` port-forwarding.

1. Use `kubectl` command to get the `SERVICE-IP` of `cray-sysmgmt-health-thanos-query` service.

    ```yaml
    kubectl get svc -n sysmgmt-health  vmagent-vms
    ```
  
   Expected output looks similar to the following:

    ```text
    NAME                               TYPE        CLUSTER-IP    EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)              AGE
    vmagent-vms                        ClusterIP   10.17.40.41   <none>        8429/TCP             6d5h
    ```

2. Use `ssh` port-forwarding using the service IP.

    ```text
    ssh root@SYSTEM-IP -L 9090:SERVICE-IP:9090
    ```

3. Open `localhost:8429` in the browser to access the GUI.

NOTE: In this case `SERVICE-IP` is `10.11.12.13` and `SYSTEM-IP` is the IP Address of the host system.

**Vmalert:** It executes a list of the given alerting or recording rules against configured data sources. Sending alerting notifications vmalert relies on configured Alertmanager. Recording rules results are persisted via remote write protocol. vmalert is heavily inspired by Prometheus implementation and aims to be compatible with its syntax.

> Each service may scale independently and may run on the most suitable hardware. vmstorage nodes don’t know about each other, don’t communicate with each other and don’t share any data. This is a shared nothing architecture. It increases cluster availability, and simplifies cluster maintenance as well as cluster scaling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each service may scale independently and may run on the most suitable hardware. vmstorage nodes don’t know about each other, do not communicate with each other and do not share any data. This is a shared nothing architecture. It increases cluster availability, and simplifies cluster maintenance as well as cluster scaling.
```

> ## Cluster resizing and scalability:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Cluster resizing and scalability
```

Cluster performance and capacity can be scaled up in two ways:

> - By adding more resources (CPU, RAM, disk IO, disk space, etc..) AKA vertical scalability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Vertical scalability:  Adding more resources (CPU, RAM, disk IO, disk space, and so on).
```

> - By adding more of each component to the cluster AKA horizontal scalability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Horizontal scalability: Adding more of each component to the cluster.
```
